SEP-1309: Add spec and SDK versioning guidelines (#1404)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: docs/community/governance.mdx

Core and lead maintainers are responsible for all aspects of Model Context Protocol, including documentation, issues, suggestions for content, and all other parts under the [MCP project](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol). Maintainers are responsible for documentation, issues, and suggestions of content for their area of the MCP project, but are encouraged to partake in general maintenance of the MCP projects. Maintainers, core maintainers, and lead maintainers should use the same contribution process as external contributors, rather than making direct changes to repos. This provides insight into intent and opportunity for discussion.

> SDK maintainers are responsible for all aspects of their respective Model Context Protocol SDKs along with managing SDK version release timelines.

Reviewer: "All aspects" leaves the door open for interpretation. The SDKs should still map to the work done within the protocol - it's not quite a "free for all" there.

Once proposals have a sponsor, they are assigned to the sponsor and are tagged `draft`.

### SDK Versioning

> SDK maintainers have the freedom to do SDK version releases at their own pace. Each SDK version release **SHOULD** contain, as part of its code, the specification versions that are supported by the SDK version release.

Reviewer 2: question: what does this mean, why is it a SHOULD, and how is it different from other requirements

Author: This was added to the SEP to communicate to the audience (SDK maintainers, application builders, users) that it is the responsibility of the SDK maintainers to determine the protocol specification versions that a SDK release is compliant with and add it as within the SDK code. These are the protocol spec versions that will be used during version negotiation. Application builders or users should not be able configure these when using the SDK (with the exception of opting into partially supported versions mentioned below) or at runtime.

None of the other requirements explicitly call out that the supported spec versions should be coded as part of the SDK.

> SDK maintainers have the freedom to do SDK version releases at their own pace. Each SDK version release **SHOULD** contain, as part of its code, the specification versions that are supported by the SDK version release.

Author: I have left the SHOULD statement in there but reframed the first sentence. Let me know if you disagree with the current structure.

> - SDK maintainers **MUST** use version release tags to mark compliance with different specification versions.

Reviewer: Are we talking about release tags in GitHub or another avenue? Let's be explicit.

- SDK maintainers **MUST** publish release notes that call out with which specification versions the release is compliant.

> - An SDK version release **SHOULD** implement all features specified in a specification version if it claims compliance with that version, and SHOULD NOT implement features introduced in versions beyond its declared compliance range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An SDK version release **SHOULD** implement all features included in a protocol specification version if it claims compliance with that version. It **SHOULD NOT** implement features introduced in versions beyond its declared compliance range.
```

> - An SDK version **MAY** implement partial compliance with a specification version under the following conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An SDK release **MAY** be partially compliant with a protocol specification version under the following conditions:
```

  - SDK release notes **MUST** explicitly document which features from the partially supported specification version are implemented.
  - The SDK **MUST** use its latest fully-supported version as the default specification version setting.

>   - The SDK **MUST** provide configuration options allowing users to set the maximum specification version used during version negotiation.

Reviewer 2: question: what about minimum? If I need certain features to be available on servers wont i need minimum as well?

Reviewer 2: Not getting that... as a user of an SDK that does negotiation i may want a max and a min right? i.e. i dont want negotiation to negotiate me lower than XX version.

Reviewer 2: again, im not seeing any difference between case for setting max and case for setting min. There maybe past versions which also do not support all features. I would suggest we should also allow setting min.

Author: Had an offline discussion. Adding the option to configure the minimum protocol version used for version negotiation. If support for a previous version is dropped due to some features no longer being supported, the developers should have the option to configure the minimum spec version if they deem the remaining features relevant enough to be compliant for their use case.

>   - All features from the partially supported specification version **MUST** be implemented with version-aware behavior that respects the user-configured maximum specification version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - All features from the partially supported protocol specification version **MUST** be implemented with version-aware behavior that respects the developer-configured maximum protocol specification version.
```

### Specification-SDK Version Mapping Strategy

Specification documentation tracks the status of specification releases across all official MCP SDKs using an implementation tracking matrix. This can be used for SDK version discovery as well as to keep track of how far along specification compliance is across the official SDKs.

> - SDK maintainers **MUST** update the table whenever they put out a version release that meets the specification compliance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SDK maintainers **MUST** update the table whenever they release a version that changes protocol specification compliance
```
